# CS360-Mobile-Architect-and-Programming

The app I decided to develop for my final was the weight loss app. The goal of this app was to allow a user to create an account that you stored within a database, login to said account, navigate to an area where you can input a daily weight so that you can keep track of your progress. This table would display each entry with the weight and the date entered so that you can see your progress. You can also delete an entry if you happen to make a mistake which would be deleted from the database based on that user. The app would also allow you to either give or deny permission for SMS messaging so that you can be notified via text message if and when you hit your weight goal.

A login screen and the main entry screen were the ones I deemed most necessary and I cut out the rest for this assignment. I made sure to keep the screens as user friendly as possible going for a more simplistic, not too eye popping design. I figured this would be best so that my users don't get distracted and can use the app for its needs and then move on with their day. I feel my designs are successful because the main purpose of the ap is functional and you don't need to do much to navigate to the screen with the table.

I made sure to break this down section by section once I began coding the functions to make the app work. The first step in my process was to make sure I had a databse that could hold all of the important infoirmation. Next, I focused on coding the login screen so that you can create accounts that are stored within the database and then login to the profiles kept within the databse using a user name and password. The I coded the sms permission to ask if it was ok to send the user text messages while uing the app. Then I moved on to coding the table so that my users couls create, read, update, and delete items from the table as they input their weights. I also tested using the emulator all throughout the process to make sure each new function and feature I added was functioning the way I meant it to. For example, when I implemented my login screen I attemted to login without a user name or password to make sure the system would throw me an error message and prompt me to re-enter my data. I then created a profile and attempted to input the wrong information to see if it would throw a similar error.

I had the most trouble implementing the SMS messaging, at first it wouldn't ask for permission and ould just send the messages anyway. I had to really dig into my code to find out why that was happening. Turned out I didn't have a function set up correctly and my app was automatically thinking the user agreed.

I think I was particularly successful at demonstrating my ability to utilize a database to create a table that you can input, read, and delete entries directly from the database and it then reloaded the table to take into account those changes showing you the new table. This took me the longest to code and I was very happy when it worked the way I wanted it to.

